my name is dr. Paul Baumgartner I'm an
adjunct professor for CSU the college of
safety and emergency services I actually
teach for safety as well as
environmental management and I've been a
teacher total for about 10 years guarda
is a working cowboy in New Mexico as a
teenager I speak fluent spanish and a
lot of 17 I joined the United States
Army infantry in the late 80s and later
became a plant and soil chemist and
animal geneticist after about 10 years
after my bachelor's degree I decided to
go back to school I became a director
for an environmental laboratory and then
took a reprieve from that and decided to
do some design engineering work but I
needed to the credentials to do some of
that particular with respect to
environmental engineering so I actually
enrolled at columbia Southern in 2001
and got a duel masters of environmental
as well as safety engineering management
at the time and ultimately designed a
hazardous treatment facility that I
operated for rail car cleaning
facilities which led me into a lot of
mobile chemistry work I was combining
safety as well as environmental so
currently I've got two different
businesses that I that operate one is a
rather large laboratories I've got seven
different environmental laboratories I
did a lot of guest lecturing but i also
have a biotech consulting company where
i do a lot of data analysis with respect
to a chemistry of biotech and markets I
think CSU is is really a portal of
opportunity it was for me anyway I
family I see CSU as an opportunity to to
funnel interest and previous experiences
into a program can be tribulation and
actually culminate into a well
accredited degree that can be used to
become a scholar practitioner in what's
field probably the most enjoyable aspect
of teaching is more than just pure
lecture it's more of the interaction
and the ability to engage and learn from
us students as well as helping them
learn to learn one of my philosophies is
actually systems thinking and so I get a
lot of enjoyment out of kind of taking a
very adept learner and teaching them to
learn better and running to become a
systems thinker the safety is is really
still a rather new field just start in
the very late 70s early 80s and it
encompasses a large variety of
industries within within the American
economy there's a there's a recent new
movement into safety nets make it more
than just a loss mitigation type of a
position or career field and it's more
of proactive so we're actually very
engaged in employees and industries
lives and lifestyles wound up working
very very closely with senior management
in helping to create a very proactive
type of an environment it actually
serves to benefit not only the industry
and the specific company but families
are very directly affected with with
respect to safety my interaction with
students particularly with respect to
online there's there's a disparity when
I'm when I'm lecturing in a public forum
or in a classroom a brick and mortar
classroom there always seems to be one
two three students in a classroom it
will sit very quietly and it's very
difficult to draw responses and to get
some feedback to ensure that that
students actually learning and if the
learning outcomes are being met with
respect to online learning particularly
with the the benefit of discussion
boards I can ensure that there's no
Wallflower so to speak someone who's is
inhibitive about connecting and I and I
in one thing that I can connect with I
can't connect with them verbally I can
connect with them on the line
you